Hello welcome to the course on databases.
In today's tutorial we're going to install postgresql and PGE admin for four windows.
So let's go ahead and get started.
The first thing I'm going to need is a browser.
And in all browser we need to go to w w w dot post gray school dot org.
Now this is the page where you can get postgresql and we need to go to the download tab at the top and
they will present us with a couple of options so you can select your operating system.
In our case we're installing postgresql for Windows.
If you're using a different system then you'll need to select a different option.
So go ahead and click on Windows and then we've got two options here we can use interactive installer
by enterprise to be all the graphical installer by big as well.
The one that we're going to use in this course is the installer by and tries to be so go ahead and click
that and this will bring up a new window again or a new page.
So here we're going to need to select the version that we want install so just install the latest version
that you have right now the latest version from his version $9.6 and once I'm going to go ahead and
install that.
There might be a later version.
You should go for the latest version but not the one that's in there and better serve as a version in
beta mode which is still being developed then probably don't go for that one just go for the latest
fully released version.
And so it just system.
So here we've got.
I'm using Windows 64 bit and most likely you're also using Windows 64 bit.
The most recent machines are most the 64 bit.
In case you're using a 32 bit then you'll need to click here I had to check that you click properties
on your computer and then you just go here and check.
Here it says system type 64 bit operating system.
So you might say 32 but most likely 64.
So go ahead and select your version click that and that should start the download of postgresql for
you.
So your dollar should begin shortly.
If it doesn't click here but hopefully it will start just now.
So while it's downloading I wanted to mention what we are downloading so we're downloading and installation
package for both PGE admin and postgresql supposed Gaskill is the programming language the database
system that we're going to be using whereas PGE admin is a graphical user interface for that system
so you don't have to use a graphical user interface you can totally work with postgresql all through
the command line and that will be fine but it's much more convenient to use a graphical user interface
and that's why we're going to install it and it's a big advantage that we actually get them together
in one package so we don't have to run two installations separate it so there you go the file has downloaded
so all you need to do is you want to fill the story then go ahead but otherwise all you need to do is
just run this installer Solas get a second to come up so that it is IDB
and this is going to help us install the programming language and the dimiss database system and P-chan
and for so Holcomb's the postgresql set up wizard so click next.
So the installation directory.
I'm just going leave the default here data directory again.
I'm just going to leave the default here.
So passwords very important because this is how you access your database and is going to ask you for
the password when you log in for the first time.
So just whatever you type in here just remember it.
Make sure to record it somewhere so that you have this password going forward.
I'm just going to type in a password here that I'm going to remember and I'm going to click next.
So if you're poor or don't sign up for whiskey just use the default option that is been suggested to.
That's probably the best way to go.
Just leave it at default then this can be also left to default so click next and set up is now ready.
So go ahead and click.
So this is going to take a bit of time.
And when it is done we'll continue this tutorial.
All right so the solution has been completed and here it's asking if we want to launch.
Stack builder at exit.
Actually we don't need stability that some additional features as you can add onto your postgresql we
are going to need that so just check that box and go ahead and click Finish and voila you've installed
postgresql and Pidgen 4.
So if you go to your start bar and you select start and here then you type in PGE admin for admin.
There is no pop up so just take it and drag it onto your eyes and drag your onto a desktop and that
will bring up a shortcut.
If you didn't get one through this process and then once you launch it you can always just pin it into
your into your start bar.
That way it will always be there so let's go ahead and launch it because there's one more thing that
we need to make sure we do inside here.
All right so there we go.
PJ admin for has launched and now what we want to do is just go unclick service here you'll see postgresql
9.6 that's our server so if you click it it will normally ask you for the password.
Because this is the first time that we're using it just because I've already had admin foreign installed
it's probably remembered my password but it Lawsie for password and you can just input that password
that you selected during installation process and then the other thing that we need to do is to go to
a file and go to preferences which are going to set something up right away for the rest of the course
because it'll be required for down the track need to go and set up the binary parts.
So as you can see mine is really set up again because I did have posed as John P-chan Forestal previously
yours won't be set up at this stage but at the same time this is required for us to be able to complete
the course successfully.
So he's going to set it up now so we don't have to worry about later on.
So we're going to go to is find the directory where you installed postgresql and then go to pose rescue
Well in that directory.
Well that's the directory itself.
So this is where I installed pulse reskill.
Then there's a folder 9.6 and then there's a folder bin.
So basically that's a folder where all of these files are stored puji dump and so on and so.
So just go ahead and find that folder and copy the path to that folder here.
And go ahead and click OK.
And that way you're set for the rest of the course.
Now we have one more thing left to do to prepare everything so that we're all set to proceed with the
fallings toils.
So we let you go and set up the folder which we're going to use to upload data into pigeon before.
So just you can get rid of this window and I'm going to folder my desktop and I also recommend that
you place a folder on your desktop if you can call the databases so we need to change the permissions
for the folder so that page admin for can get data from here.
So right click your folder and go to properties.
And here you need to go into security and insecurity.
You need to change.
We'll be asking you to add this.
Everyone here so I'm going to show you how to do it.
I'm going to remove quick.
OK so this is probably how your folder looks like or something like that.
And here you just need to click edit and then each click add and here just type in e capital and then
everyone or everyone sort of capital E and click OK.
And just make sure that this new user that you've added has read exiguous read contents and write contents
so just make sure that all of that is checked all those checkboxes are marked to click OK and click
ok again.
So now if I check back here in security you'll see that I've got everyone.
And that will allow PGE admin for to go in and read files from there or write files if we need to.
But mostly we're going to be reading files.
So and that's where we will be uploading or storing all data sets and then upload upload them from there.
Now one thing I do need to mention is that this is basically you know you're changing the security setting
so now everyone can read this folder.
And this might be a security concern.
So if you're you know doing this these controls at work then definitely you know consult with your I.T.
department or administrators if this is OK to do.
And if you have the right permissions.
Also if you are uncomfortable leaving this like this folder open to everyone all the time then just
just do this right before you are applauding the dataset for a section into admin for so set the permissions
upload the data set and then just remove this everywhere user everyone.
While you're performing you know the tools in the section and until you get to the next section and
then again set the permissions upload the data and then unset the permissions so we're not going to
be doing that in the course which you can definitely do that if you're worried about your security.
And so there we go that's the final step that you need to perform in order to set up each admin form.
And I can't wait to see on the next tutorial until next I'm happy analyzing.